1. Display the average, lowest, highest and difference in lowest and highest salaries
   for each department number.

	select deptno, avg(sal) as Avg,
	min(sal) as lowest ,
	max(sal) as Highest, 
    (max(sal)- min(sal)) as difference
	from emp
	group by deptno;
	
2. Display the number of employees within each job.

	select job, count(1)
	from emp
	group by job;
	
3. Display the lowest salaries job-wise within each department number.
	
	select job, deptno, min(sal) as lowest_salaries
	from emp
	group by job, deptno;
	
4. Display only those jobs where the minimum salary is greater than or equal to 3000.

	select job, min(sal)
	from emp
	group by job
	having min(sal) >= 3000;
	
5. Display the records sorted as per the job. Make sure that within each job the
   records are sorted as per the highest to lowest salaries.
   
   select job,sal from emp
   order by job, sal desc;
   
6. Display Deptno, total of that deptno and Grade. Grade should be A if the total is
   greater than 10000, else it should be B. Sort the summary output as per the
   highest to lowest Grade.
   
   SELECT deptno,
       SUM(sal) AS Total_Salary,
       CASE 
           WHEN SUM(sal) > 10000 THEN 'A'
           ELSE 'B'
       END AS Grade
	FROM emp
	GROUP BY deptno
	ORDER BY Grade DESC;
 
   
   
7. Calculate and display only the average salaries paid to all those employees where
   the employee name starts with A and name starts with S.
   
   select ename,avg(sal) as Avg_salary
   from emp
   where ename like 'A%' or ename like 'S%'
   group by ename;
   
8. Product exactly same output as shown below
	
	select concat('The total of job type ', job, ' is ', sum(sal)) as "Job Wise Salaries"
	from emp
	group by job;
	
9. Display Mgr code and number of sub ordinates reporting to them for only those
   managers who have at least 3 sub ordinates.
   
   
	select mgr, count(mgr)
	from emp
	group by mgr
	having count(mgr) > 3;
	
10. Produce exactly same output as shown below:
	
	select deptno, 
		sum(Sal) as "Total Salary" ,
		(sum(Sal)*0.10) as "Tax: 10% of Total",
		(sum(Sal) - (sum(Sal)*0.10)) as "Net Total: Deducting Tax"
	from emp
	group by deptno;

11. Display the Highest sales for each product within a country for each continent.
	
	select continent, country, pname, max(sales)
	from products2
	group by pname,country, continent ;
	
	
12. Display the average sales for each product region-type wise within each area for
each country.

	select country, area, region_type, pname, avg(sales)
	from products2
	group by country, area, region_type, pname;

13. Display the country-wise number of products for each product

    select country, count(pname)
	from products2
	group by country;

14. Display the Country wise total of sales for each Continent. The summary records
	should be shown as per highest to lowest sequence of totals. But in the final
	display only first 2 records should be shown.

	select continent, country, sum(sales) AS total
	from products2
	group by continent, country
	order by total desc
	limit 2;

15. Display the exact following report:

	select concat(continent,'-',Country, '-', area, '-', region_type) as Geography,
	sum(sales) as "Total Sales"
	from products2
	group by continent, country, area, region_type;
	
16. Display the product name wise total sales excluding records of Rural region of
    North area.
    
	select pname, sum(sales) as "Total Sales" from products2
	where area Not In('North') and region_type NOT IN('Rural')
	group by pname;
	
17. Display country wise average sales excluding country India
   
   select country, avg(sales) as "Avergae sales" from products2
   where Country NOT IN('India')
   group by country;
   
18.Display product name wise total sales for all the transactions done from
   transaction id 23 onwards.

	select pname, sum(sales) from products2
	where trans_id > 22
	group by pname;
	
19. Display Country wise count of transactions done.

    SELECT Country, count(trans_id)
	from products2
	group by country;

20. Display Country wise average sales done of Samsung only.

	select country, avg(sales) as "Avg samsung sales" from products2
	where pname = 'samsung'
	group by country;
	
21. Display product name wise count of records from India table.
	
	select pname, count(pname)
	from india
	group by pname;
	
22. Display product name wise total of quantity for the transactions having quantity
    above 1.
	
	select pname, sum(Qty) from india 
	where qty > 1
    group by pname;	
	
23.Display the total amount as per code which will be grouped by 3 rd , 4 th , 5 th and 6 th
   characters of code column’s values.
   
   select substring(code, 3, 4) as group_code,
   sum(amount)as total_amount
   from code_data
   group by group_code;
      
24. The last 4 digits of code values represent the year. Display year wise total amount.

	select substring(code,8) as year, sum(amount) as Total_Amount
	from code_data
	group by year;


25. Display the average amount as per the 6 th character of code column’s values.

	select substring(code,6,1) as code, avg(amount) as Avg
	from code_data
	group by code;
